Author: Michael Giardino
Date: 2014-09-05 04:50:43

Do you have any more specifics on what Lavabit did to secure their email? I am running a private mailserver and while the mail is stored on an encrypted filesystem, I am looking to develop a method to encrypt per-mailbox. My thought was to encrypt each piece of mail with the users public key after it passes spam filters. Then, as you seemed to suggest in your previous post, transparently decrypt it when the user IMAPs. Once the session ends, the server could reencrypt the entire mail directory.

Where I'm a bit unsure is in details. A private key would have to be stored on the server. This key would have to be different from the users primary PGP key. It would obviously be protected by a passphrase. What do you think of the idea of generating a new PGP keypair when a user changes his password? That way, the password is only passed from the user, through the SSL/TLS channel to dovecot which then passes the password to the encryption engine which passes it to the key. Is there a better method of securely translating a changeable password to a private PGP passphrase?

Another option might be to use a client certificate based system, but I'm a bit foggy on that idea.

Obviously, this isn't a perfect system because your private key is on a server. In addition, anyone with access to your IMAP account via a stolen phone or laptop could decrypt your mail. However, it does prevent the system administrator from giving up your email. Also it would give the account owner to remotely delete the key and any copies he has and make the entire mailbox useless bits.

I'm talking this idea over with a few people but since you've implemented a similar system yourself, I'm very curious to get some feedback on the architecture. I'm a competent enough programmer and have confidence it could be done. What I don't have confidence in is the crypto theory. I could very well be overlooking something quite obvious to a professional security person.

In any case, thanks for this writeup.
