Author: Mike B.
Date: 2013-10-31 20:59:18

About three years ago I became concerned about businesses tracking me whenever I got on line, so I installed no script, and other extensions on Firefox.   But I found out I couldn't get on line at many places where you had to click to agree by their terms, so I installed Google Chrome without any extensions, too.

Then at one small cafe, the guy behind the counter, and a friend, cut me off line as a joke by blocking my MAC address. "No problem," I told him, "I'll just change my MAC address."  And I did.  He blocked the new MAC address, so I wrote a script to change it again.

The script is reproduced here:

	:::bash
	#!/bin/bash -x
	
	MAC=00:`cat /dev/urandom | tr -dc A-Za-z0-9 | head -c 200 | md5sum | sed -r 's/^(.{10}).*$/\1/;
	s/([0-9a-f]{2})/\1:/g; s/:$//;'`;
	
	sudo ifconfig wlan0 down
	
	sudo ifconfig wlan0 hw ether $MAC
	
	sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
	
	sudo service network-manager restart


Yeah, yeah, I know ifconfig is being deprecated......

Anyway, this script worked just fine anywhere for the longest time.  That is, until July 13 this year at Panera's.   I assume they have some java script that gets the actual MAC address or maybe network manager was updated to allow them to get the actual MAC address.  I do not know which scenario is the true one but I suspect it is a script.  

Have you encountered anything like this?   And is there a way around it?

Update:  I am at Panera's right now, and have just observed that the logon
procedure does in fact grab the real MAC address.  A spoofed MAC address is ignored and somehow still grabs the real MAC address. This occurs despite having cleared out the browser cache using Chrome to clear all data (except bookmarks) and following up by clearing it again using Bleach Bit.
