Author: Etienne Perot
Website: https://perot.me/
Date: 2013-06-20 20:11:07

Daniel: There is no chipset-specific code in `macchiato`, it just calls `macchanger` or `ifconfig` or `ip link` (depending on which is installed on your system) in order to perform the MAC address change. As long as those commands can change your MAC address, then `macchiato` should work because all it does is call the same thing.

However, some network interfaces don't like having their MAC address changed when they are disabled, and some don't like having their MAC address changed when they are enabled. By default, `macchiato` will disable the network interface before changing its MAC address, and then enable it again afterwards. You can change this behavior by adding `dontBringDown=true` to `wlan0.sh`, which will just leave the interface enabled all the time. If you already had `dontBringDown=...` in `wlan0.sh`, try removing the line completely instead, and see what happens.

If that still doesn't work, check if you can change the MAC address manually, by running either one of the following commands (these are the actual commands `macchiato` calls to change the MAC address):

    :::console
    $ sudo macchanger -m 00:11:22:33:44:55:66 wlan0
    $ sudo ip link set wlan0 address 00:11:22:33:44:55:66
    $ sudo ifconfig wlan0 hw ether 00:11:22:33:44:55:66

Try each of those, both when the interface is enabled and disabled. (You can disable an interface by doing `ip link set wlan0 down` or `ifconfig wlan0 down`, and enable it by doing the same but with `up` instead of `down`.)

If none of those commands work, then `macchiato` won't work either. It probably means your particular device doesn't allow its MAC address to be changed, in which case your only options are to either accept that, or not to use the device at all :(

If the commands **do** work, then it's a bug in `macchiato`. In this case, please do another `git pull` (I [added a `MACCHIATO_DEBUG` environment variable](https://github.com/EtiennePerot/macchiato/commit/ec204b0731c587778a3b1e267178aff0cc87dd99) for debugging) and then run this:

    :::console
    $ sudo MACCHIATO_DEBUG=true /usr/share/macchiato/macchiato /etc/macchiato.d 2>&1 | tee ~/macchiato.log

This will print a lot of lines, which shows exactly what the script is doing, which things it is checking, what commands it is running, etc. Email me the full output (which has already been saved in `~/macchiato.log` by the `tee` command), and I should be able to fix it.
